Abstract
We trained a large, deep convolutional neural network to classify the 1.2 million
high-resolution images in the ImageNet LSVRC-2010 contest into the 1000 different classes. On the test data, we achieved top-1 and top-5 error rates of 37.5%
and 17.0% which is considerably better than the previous state-of-the-art. The
neural network, which has 60 million parameters and 650,000 neurons, consists
of five convolutional layers, some of which are followed by max-pooling layers,
and three fully-connected layers with a final 1000-way softmax. To make training faster, we used non-saturating neurons and a very efficient GPU implementation of the convolution operation. To reduce overfitting in the fully-connected
layers we employed a recently-developed regularization method called “dropout”
that proved to be very effective. We also entered a variant of this model in the
ILSVRC-2012 competition and achieved a winning top-5 test error rate of 15.3%,
compared to 26.2% achieved by the second-best entry.


Discussion

Our results show that a large, deep convolutional neural network is capable of achieving recordbreaking results on a highly challenging dataset using purely supervised learning. It is notable
that our network’s performance degrades if a single convolutional layer is removed. For example,
removing any of the middle layers results in a loss of about 2% for the top-1 performance of the
network. So the depth really is important for achieving our results.
To simplify our experiments, we did not use any unsupervised pre-training even though we expect
that it will help, especially if we obtain enough computational power to significantly increase the
size of the network without obtaining a corresponding increase in the amount of labeled data. Thus
far, our results have improved as we have made our network larger and trained it longer but we still
have many orders of magnitude to go in order to match the infero-temporal pathway of the human
visual system. Ultimately we would like to use very large and deep convolutional nets on video
sequences where the temporal structure provides very helpful information that is missing or far less
obvious in static images.
